
### NORMAL level

#### Task 1

Imagine you have a website that has a `Quick search` button. This button gets all characters of level higher than 45 (`level` column), of `dwarf` race (`race` column) from the `character` table and outputs the result on the page. Provide the SQL string that will be needed to do this.

SELECT * FROM character WHERE level > 45 AND race = 'dwarf' 

#### Task 2

Go to http://www.w3schools.com/sql/default.asp and click on `Try it yourself` button. Then you will be able to run your SQL queries after clicking on `Run SQL` button. Click on `Customers` table on the right. In this task you will work with it.

1. Select customers who live in London 
SELECT * FROM Customers WHERE City = 'London'
2. Get `CustomerName` and `ContactName` of customers with `Address` starting with `23`
SELECT CustomerName, ContactName FROM Customers WHERE Address LIKE '23%'
3. Get the table of unique cities.
SELECT DISTINCT City FROM Customers
4. Select customers with `PostalCode` starting with `0`
SELECT * FROM Customers WHERE PostalCode LIKE '0%'
5. Select customers NOT from USA
SELECT * FROM Customers WHERE Country <> 'USA'
6. Select customers from France sorted by `ContactName` in descending order
SELECT * FROM Customers WHERE Country = 'France' ORDER BY ContactName DESC
7. Select 10 customers from Germany and USA
SELECT * FROM Customers WHERE Country IN ('Germany', 'USA') LIMIT 10

#### Task 3

Go to http://www.w3schools.com/sql/default.asp and click on `Try it yourself` button. Then you will be able to run your SQL queries after clicking on `Run SQL` button. Click on `Products` table on the right. In this task you will work with it.

1. Select products that start with `M` letter
SELECT * FROM [Products] WHERE ProductName LIKE ('M%')
2. Get `Unit` column for a `Steeleye Stout` product
SELECT Unit FROM [Products] WHERE ProductName = 'Steeleye Stout'
3. Get `ProductName` column of all products with the price higher than 22
SELECT ProductName FROM [Products] WHERE Price > 22
4. Select products with weight value of 500 or 250 g
SELECT * FROM [Products] WHERE Unit LIKE '%250 g%' OR Unit LIKE '%500 g%'
5. Select products with `Unit` containing `bottles` word
SELECT * FROM [Products] WHERE Unit LIKE '%bottles%'
6. Select products with `SupplierId` that equals to 7. Sort the results by `Price` in descending order
SELECT * FROM [Products] WHERE SupplierId = 7 ORDER BY PRICE DESC

#### Task 4

Go to http://www.w3schools.com/sql/default.asp and click on `Try it yourself` button. Then you will be able to run your SQL queries after clicking on `Run SQL` button. Click on `Employees` table on the right. In this task you will work with it.

1. Get `FirstName`, `LastName`, and `Notes` of employee with `Leverling` last name
SELECT FirstName, LastName, Notes FROM [Employees] WHERE LastName = 'Leverling'
2. Select all employees born after 1960
SELECT * FROM [Employees] WHERE BirthDate > '1960-12-31'
3. Get `BirthDate` of employees with `FirstName` starting with `A`
SELECT BirthDate FROM [Employees] WHERE FirstName LIKE 'A%'
4. Get `FIrstName`, `LastName`, and `BirthDate` of employees sorted by `BirthDate` in ascending order
SELECT FirstName, LastName, BirthDate FROM [Employees] ORDER BY BirthDate ASC
